docs: ubuntu packs page refactor (#1340)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/06-integrations/00-ubuntu.md

---
title: 'Ubuntu'
metaTitle: 'Ubuntu'

> metaDescription: 'Choosing Ubuntu as an Operating System within the Palette console'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: 'Choose Ubuntu Operating System pack in Palette.'

```

Reviewer: What if we did something this for packs? I'm considering the way I perform a search.

If you like it, I could add it to our Pack Layout page. 

If you don't go for it, I'd just suggest 'Choose' and 'Palette'.

    - path: hardening/privileged-psp.yaml
      targetPath: /etc/kubernetes/hardening/privileged-psp.yaml
      targetOwner: "root:root"
      targetPermissions: "0600"
    - path: hardening/90-kubelet.conf
      targetPath: /etc/sysctl.d/90-kubelet.conf
      targetOwner: "root:root"
      targetPermissions: "0600"
    
  preKubeadmCommands:
    # For enabling 'protect-kernel-defaults' flag to kubelet, kernel parameters changes are required
    - 'echo "====> Applying kernel parameters for Kubelet"'
    - 'sysctl -p /etc/sysctl.d/90-kubelet.conf'
  postKubeadmCommands:
    # Apply the privileged PodSecurityPolicy on the first master node ; Otherwise, CNI (and other) pods won't come up
    - 'export KUBECONFIG=/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf'
    # Sometimes api server takes a little longer to respond. Retry if applying the pod-security-policy manifest fails
    - '[ -f "$KUBECONFIG" ] && { echo " ====> Applying PodSecurityPolicy" ; until $(kubectl apply -f /etc/kubernetes/hardening/privileged-psp.yaml > /dev/null ); do echo "Failed to apply PodSecurityPolicies, will retry in 5s" ; sleep 5 ; done ; } || echo "Skipping PodSecurityPolicy for worker nodes"'
```

<br />

<WarningBox>

> Review the proper parameter documentation before you make changes to the kubeadm configuration. Improper configurations can cause deployment failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the parameter documentation before you make changes to the kubeadm configuration. Improper configurations can cause deployment failures.

```

</WarningBox>

Palette also supports Ubuntu Pro. Refer to the [Ubuntu Pro](/integrations/ubuntu?22.04.x#ubuntupro) section below for more details.

<br />

## Usage

> To use the Ubuntu OS pack, add the pack to your cluster profile when selecting the OS layer. Refer to the [Create Cluster Profile](/cluster-profiles/task-define-profile) guide to learn more about creating cluster profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Ubuntu OS pack, add the pack to your cluster profile when you select the OS layer. Refer to the [Create Cluster Profile](/cluster-profiles/task-define-profile) guide to learn more about creating cluster profiles.

```

<br />

### Customize Pack

> You can customize the Ubuntu OS pack by using the available configuration parameters exposed in pack in the YAML configuration file. Use the exposed parameters to customize the Kubernetes install process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the Ubuntu OS pack using the available configuration parameters in the YAML file. Use the parameters to customize the Kubernetes install process.

```

<br />

#### Add Custom Files

> You can create custom files before kubeadm is initialized. Files defined in the `files` section can be used before the `preKubeadmCommands` and `postKubeadmCommands` are executed during runtime. This means that the file creation process takes place before the invocation of kubeadm commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create custom files that you define in the `files` section that precedes the `preKubeadmCommands` and `postKubeadmCommands` sections. The files are invoked during runtime.

```

  postKubeadmCommands:
  - echo "Executing post kube admin config commands"
```

In the next example, a configuration file is added to a folder.

<br />

```yaml
kubeadmconfig:
  files:
    - targetPath: /etc/containerd/config.toml
      targetOwner: "root:root"
      targetPermissions: "0644"
      content: |
        ## template: jinja

        # Use config version 2 to enable new configuration fields.
        # Config file is parsed as version 1 by default.
        version = 2

        imports = ["/etc/containerd/conf.d/*.toml"]

        [plugins]
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
            sandbox_image = "registry.k8s.io/pause:3.9"
            device_ownership_from_security_context = true
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
            runtime_type = "io.containerd.runc.v2"
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
            SystemdCgroup = true
  preKubeadmCommands:
    - 'echo "====> Applying pre Kubeadm commands"'
  postKubeadmCommands:
    - 'echo "====> Applying post Kubeadm commands"'
```

### Ubuntu Pro

> Ubuntu Pro is a security and maintenance subscription offering from Canonical that offers long-term security support and many other security hardening features.  Ubuntu Pro offers several benefits compared to the free Ubuntu offering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ubuntu Pro is a security and maintenance subscription offering from Canonical that offers long-term security support and many other security hardening features.  Ubuntu Pro offers several more benefits than the free Ubuntu offering:

```

| Parameter| Description | Default Value |
|---|---|----|
|**token**| The Canonical subscription token for Ubuntu Pro. Refer to the Ubuntu Pro [subscribe page](https://ubuntu.com/pro/subscribe) to aquire a subscription token. | `""` |
|**esm-apps**| Expanded Security Maintenance (ESM) for Applications. Refer to the Ubuntu [ESM documentation](https://ubuntu.com/security/esm) to learn more. | Disabled |
| **livepatch** | Canonical Livepatch service. Refer to the Ubuntu [Livepatch](https://ubuntu.com/security/livepatch) documenation for more details. | Disabled |
| **fips** |  Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140 validated cryptography for Linux workloads on Ubuntu. This installs NIST-certified core packages. Refer to the Ubuntu [FIPS](https://ubuntu.com/security/certifications/docs/2204) documentation to learn more. | Disabled |
| **fips-updates** | Install NIST-certified core packages with priority security updates. Refer to the Ubuntu [FIPS Updates](https://ubuntu.com/security/certifications/docs/fips-updates) documentation to learn more. | Disabled |

> | **cis** | Gain access to OpenSCAP-based tooling that automates both hardening and auditing with certified content based off of the published CIS benchmarks. Refer to the Ubuntu [CIS](https://ubuntu.com/security/certifications/docs/2204/usg/cis) documentation to learn more. | Disabled |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **cis** | Gain access to OpenSCAP-based tooling that automates both hardening and auditing with certified content based on published CIS benchmarks. Refer to the Ubuntu [CIS](https://ubuntu.com/security/certifications/docs/2204/usg/cis) documentation to learn more. | Disabled |

```

Use the following steps to enable Ubuntu Pro.

<br />

> 1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

```

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Click on **Add Cluster Profile**.

4. Fill out the input fields for **Name**, **Version**, **Description**, **Type** and **Tags**. Click on **Next** to continue.

5. Select the infrastructure provider and click on **Next**.

> 6. Select the OS layer. You can add Ubuntu by using the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select the OS layer and use the following information to find the Ubuntu pack:

```

    -  **Pack Type** - OS

    -  **Registry** - Public Repo

    -  **Pack Name** -Ubuntu

    -  **Pack Version** - 20.04 or 22.04

> 7. Modify the Ubuntu **Pack values** to activate the **Presets** options for the Ubuntu YAML configuration file. Click on the **</\>** button to reveal the YAML editor and expand the **Preset Drawer**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Modify the Ubuntu **Pack values** to activate the **Presets** options for the Ubuntu YAML file. Click on the **</\>** button to reveal the YAML editor and expand the **Preset Drawer**.

```

  <br />

  ![A view of the cluster profile creation wizard for Ubuntu Pro](/integrations_ubuntu_ubuntu-pro-preset-drawer.png)

8. Click the **Ubuntu Advantage/Pro** checkbox to include the Ubuntu Pro parameters in the pack configuration file.

> 9. Toggle on or off to enable or disable the various Ubuntu Pro services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Toggle options on or off to enable or disable the various Ubuntu Pro services.

```
